Update Set Environment Variables on Astro Topic (#983)
astronomer/docs: astro/environment-variables.md

description: Set environment variables on Astro to specify Airflow configurations and custom logic.
---

> You can use environment variables to set Airflow configurations and custom values for your Airflow Deployments. For example, you can use environment variables to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use environment variables to set Airflow configurations and custom values for Deployments on Astro. For example, you can use environment variables to:
```

- Set up an SMTP service.

> - Limit Airflow parallelism and DAG concurrency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Identify a production Deployment versus a development Deployment
```

Parallelism now scales automatically, and DAG concurrency will now be in Cloud UI so scrapping those in favor of this non-Airflow use case that I think we want to remind people they can do

- Store Airflow connections and variables.
- Customize your default DAG view in the Airflow UI (Tree, Graph, Gantt, and so on)

> > **Note:** Some environment variables on Astro are set globally and cannot be overridden for individual Deployments. For more information on these environment variables, see [Global environment variables](platform-variables.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution

Some environment variables on Astro are set globally and cannot be overridden for individual Deployments. For more information on these environment variables, see [Global environment variables](platform-variables.md).

:::
```

## Set environment variables in the Cloud UI

> If you prefer to work with the Astro CLI, you can create and update environment variables using the `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update` commands. See [CLI command reference](cli/astro-deployment-variable-create.md).

Reviewer: Can we use our new CLI admonition here?

Author: @paolaperaza @jwitz needs to provide a tutorial on how to add the new CLI admonition.

> **Note:** Some environment variables on Astro are set globally and cannot be overridden for individual Deployments. For more information on these environment variables, see [Global environment variables](platform-variables.md).

## Set environment variables via the Cloud UI
## Set environment variables in the Cloud UI

Environment variables can be set directly in the Cloud UI. To do so:
If you prefer to work with the Astro CLI, you can create and update environment variables using the `astro deployment variable create` and `astro deployment variable update` commands. See [CLI command reference](cli/astro-deployment-variable-create.md).

1. In the Cloud UI, open a Deployment.
2. In the Deployment's **Configuration** menu, click **Edit Variables**.
1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace and then select a Deployment.
2. Click **Edit Variables**.
3. Enter an environment variable key and value. For sensitive credentials that should be treated with an additional layer of security, select the **Secret** checkbox. This will permanently hide the variable's value from all users in your Workspace.

>     ![Edit Variables button highlighted in the Deployment configuration page](/img/docs/edit-variables.png)

Reviewer: Any reason we're removing the screenshot here?

Author: @paolaperaza the screen capture is HUGE and unnecessary as the location of **Edit Variables** control is _very_ obvious.

1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace and then select a Deployment.
2. Click **Edit Variables**.
3. Click **Edit value** next to the value you want to edit.

    ![Edit value location](/img/docs/variable-pencil.png)

4. Modify the variable's value, then click **Done editing**.

    ![Done editing location](/img/docs/variable-checkmark.png)

5. Click **Save Variables** to save your changes. Your Airflow scheduler, webserver, and workers restart. After saving, it can take up to two minutes for updated variables to be applied to your Deployment.

### How environment variables are stored on Astro

Non-secret environment variables set in the Cloud UI are stored in a database that is managed by Astronomer and hosted in the Astro control plane. When you configure a secret environment variable in the Cloud UI, the following methodology is used:

- Astro generates a manifest that defines a Kubernetes secret containing your variable's key and value.
- Astro applies this manifest to your Deployment's namespace in the data plane.

> - After the manifest is applied, the key and value of your environment variable are stored in an [etcd cluster](https://etcd.io/) at rest within the Astronomer control plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After the manifest is applied, the key and value of your environment variable are stored in an [etcd cluster](https://etcd.io/) at rest within the Astro control plane.
```

:::caution

> Given that this file will be committed to your version control tool and to Astronomer, Astronomer recommends either storing sensitive environment variables with the Cloud UI or using a third party secrets backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given that this file will be committed to your version control tool and to Astro, Astronomer recommends either storing sensitive environment variables with the Cloud UI or using a third party secrets backend. For more information, see [Configure a secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).
```

1. Run `astro dev restart` to rebuild your image and apply your changes locally OR
2. Run `astro deploy` to apply your changes to your running Deployment on Astronomer

> > **Note:** Environment variables injected with the `Dockerfile` are mounted at build time and can be referenced in any other processes run during the Docker build process that immediately follows `astro deploy` or `astro dev start`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: info

Environment variables added to the `Dockerfile` of an Astro project are mounted at build time and can be referenced in any other processes run during the Docker build process that immediately follows `astro deploy` or `astro dev start`.

Environment variables applied in the Cloud UI only become available once the Docker build process is completed.

:::
```

>

> > Environment variables applied in the Cloud UI only become available once the Docker build process has been completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Add Airflow connections and variables using environment variables

> For users who regularly use [Airflow connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/connections.html) and [variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/variables.html), Astronomer recommends storing and fetching them with environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you regularly use [Airflow connections](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/connections.html) and [variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/variables.html), Astronomer recommends storing and fetching them with environment variables instead of adding them to the Airflow UI.
```

> As mentioned above, Airflow connections and variables are stored in Airflow's metadata database. Adding them outside of task definitions and operators requires an additional connection to Airflow's Postgres Database, which is called every time the scheduler parses a DAG (as defined by `process_poll_interval`, which is set to 1 second by default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, Airflow connections and variables are stored in Airflow's metadata database. Adding them outside of task definitions and operators requires an additional connection to Airflow's metadata database, which is called every time the scheduler parses a DAG. This parsing process is defined by the `process_poll_interval` environment variable, which is set to 1 second by default.
```

Reviewer: Suggested edit to the statement below:

> By adding connections and variables as environment variables, you can refer to them more easily in your code and lower the amount of open connections to the Airflow metadata database, which can improve performance.

ENV AIRFLOW_CONN_MY_PROD_DB=my-conn-type://login:password@host:5432/schema
```

> You can set this environment variable with an `.env` file locally, with your Dockerfile, or with the Cloud UI. For more information on how to generate your Connection URI, see the [Apache Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/stable/howto/connection/index.html#generating-connection-uri).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on how to generate a Connection URI, see the [Apache Airflow documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/stable/howto/connection/index.html#generating-connection-uri).
```

I think I'd just delete this sentence, since this entire doc is about how to set env vars?

> > **Note:** Airflow connections set with environment variables do not appear in the Airflow UI and cannot be modified there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: info

Airflow connections set with environment variables do not appear in the Airflow UI and cannot be modified there.

:::
```

On Astro, environment variables are applied and overridden in the following order:

- Cloud UI
- [.env (local development only)](develop-project.md#set-environment-variables-local-development)
- Dockerfile

> - Default Airflow values

Reviewer: Is it ok for this list not to be numbered, even though it is explicitly "in order"?

Author: @paolaperaza numbered lists should only be used for tasks that are completed in sequence. The order of the items is implied and and enforced by the statement "...in the following order". It can't be clearer! :)

For example, if you set `AIRFLOW__CORE__PARALLELISM` with one value in the Cloud UI and you set the same environment variable with another value in your `Dockerfile`, the value set in the Cloud UI takes precedence.

## Access environment variables in a specific environment

> When you access an environment variable with `Variable.get('...')`, a call is made to the secrets backend and the metadata database and this consumes valuable computing resources. To avoid this issue, you can run `os.getenv('ENV', '<environment>')` to access a specific environment variable in a specific environment. Replace `ENV` with the name of the environment variable you want to access, and  replace `environment` with one of the following: `staging`, `dev`, `local`, or `prod`.

Reviewer 2: replace `environment` with one of the following: `staging`, `dev`, `local`, or `prod`. 

to

replace `environment` with the corresponding default value.

Author: Discussed with @frankcash and we decided to keep the existing text.

> When you access an environment variable with `Variable.get('...')`, a call is made to the secrets backend and the metadata database and this consumes valuable computing resources. To avoid this issue, you can run `os.getenv('ENV', '<environment>')` to access a specific environment variable in a specific environment. Replace `ENV` with the name of the environment variable you want to access, and  replace `environment` with one of the following: `staging`, `dev`, `local`, or `prod`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a task requires an environment variable and you access it in your DAG with `Variable.get('<environment-variable>')`, a call is made to your secrets backend and the Airflow metadata database. This can consume valuable computing resources and negatively affect performance of the Airflow metadata database.

To avoid this issue, you can run `os.getenv('ENV', '<environment>')` to access a specific environment variable in a specific environment. Replace `ENV` with the name of the environment variable you want to access, and  replace `environment` with one of the following: `staging`, `dev`, `local`, or `prod`.
```

I'm a bit confused on the context of this paragraph. I think I get what we're saying, but I suspect we should give the user a bit more context, and I wonder if we're using "variable" and "environment variable" interchangeably? Will slack separately

On Astro, environment variables are applied and overridden in the following order:

- Cloud UI
- [.env (local development only)](develop-project.md#set-environment-variables-local-development)
- Dockerfile
- Default Airflow values

For example, if you set `AIRFLOW__CORE__PARALLELISM` with one value in the Cloud UI and you set the same environment variable with another value in your `Dockerfile`, the value set in the Cloud UI takes precedence.

> ## Access environment variables in a specific environment
> 
> When a task requires an environment variable and you access it in your DAG with `Variable.get('<environment-variable>')`, a call is made to your secrets backend and the Airflow metadata database. This can consume valuable computing resources and negatively affect the performance of the Airflow metadata database.
> 
> To avoid this issue, you can run `os.getenv('ENV', '<environment>')` to access a specific environment variable in a specific environment. Replace `ENV` with the name of the environment variable you want to access, and  replace `environment` with the default value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query an environment variables in a DAG

When you set an Airflow variable as an environment variable on Astro, there are two ways you can call that variable in your DAGs:

- `Variable.get('<environment-variable-key>')`
- `os.getenv('environment-variable-key', 'default_value')`

If your variable or environment variable contains a secret value, Astronomer recommends `Variable.get`. This method requires a request to Airflow’s metadata database every time your DAGs are parsed, which can be every 1-5 seconds, but it ensures that secret values are not present in your DAG code in plain text. For more information about retrieving Airflow variables, see [Variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/variables.html).

To avoid the strain on your database for non-secret values, Astronomer recommends `os.getenv('key', 'default_value')`, where `key` is the key for your environment variable on Astro and `default_value` is the default value for that key. Typically, `default_value` is equivalent to the actual value of your environment variable as defined on Astro in the Cloud UI. In the event that your DAG queries an environment variable that does not exist, `default_value` will be used.
```

Author: @paolaperaza I have edited the text. Please review and add your changes.

On Astro, environment variables are applied and overridden in the following order:

- Cloud UI
- [.env (local development only)](develop-project.md#set-environment-variables-local-development)
- Dockerfile
- Default Airflow values

For example, if you set `AIRFLOW__CORE__PARALLELISM` with one value in the Cloud UI and you set the same environment variable with another value in your `Dockerfile`, the value set in the Cloud UI takes precedence.

## Query environment variables in a DAG

When you set an Airflow variable as an environment variable on Astro, there are two ways you can call that variable in your DAGs:

- `Variable.get('<environment-variable-key>')`

> - `os.getenv('environment-variable-key', 'default_value')`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `os.getenv('<environment-variable-key>', '<default_value>')`
```

> If your variable or environment variable contains a secret value, Astronomer recommends using `Variable.get` to ensure that secret values are not present as plain text in your DAG code. However, with this method, requests to the Airflow metadata database can occur every time your DAGs are parsed and this could negatively affect database performance. For more information about retrieving Airflow variables, see [Variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/variables.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your variable or environment variable contains a secret value, Astronomer recommends using `Variable.get` to ensure that secret values are not present as plain text in your DAG code. However, with this method, requests to the Airflow metadata database can occur every time your DAGs are parsed (every 1-5 seconds) and this could negatively affect database performance. For more information about retrieving Airflow variables using this method, see [Variables](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/concepts/variables.html).
```

I think I wanna include this # of seconds benchmark but you can tweak wording if parentheses is not ideal
